Added native-token-transfers/overview.md (#395)
wormhole-foundation/wormhole-docs: products/native-token-transfers/overview.md

> Native Token Transfers (NTT) for Cross-Chain Token Deployment

Reviewer: This page needs the metadata

> Considering deploying Native Token Transfers (NTT)? Here's what you need to know:

Reviewer: This can just be removed. Typically go from the H1 right into the introduction

## Introduction

Wormhole's Native Token Transfers (NTT) provides an open-source, adaptable framework for transferring your tokens across different blockchains. Unlike traditional wrapped assets, NTT maintains the native properties of your token on every chain. This ensures you retain complete control over crucial aspects like metadata, ownership, upgradeability, and custom features.

NTT offers two operational modes for your existing tokens:

* **Locking Mode:** Preserves the original token supply on a single, designated chain

> * **Burning Mode:** Enables the deployment of truly multichain tokens with the total supply distributed across various connected chains

Reviewer: This list format should be updated (see my comments in other PR reviews)

> * **Burning Mode:** Enables the deployment of truly multichain tokens with the total supply distributed across various connected chains

Reviewer: Maybe we should have a section on deployment models so we can easily link to it from other places if needed. Probably after the key features section

> ## Key Features

Reviewer: There's quite a few features listed here. Can we decrease some of these or maybe combine some of them?

Reviewer: I almost forgot! I actually started to go through and create this page (feels like weeks ago). This is the list I ended up with:

```
- **No wrapped assets** – tokens retain their native format on each chain
- **Canonical deployments** – one unified token identity across chain
- **Supply control** – enforced mint-and-burn model maintains global supply integrity
- **Composable** – open-source and extensible for widespread adoption and integration with other protocols
- **Customizable controls** – configure rate limits, access control, and attestation thresholds
```

* **Unified User Experience:** Users interact with the same native token on every chain, guaranteeing seamless fungibility and a consistent experience
* **No Liquidity Pools:** Transfer tokens directly without the need for liquidity pools, reducing fees, slippage, and MEV risks
* **Integrator Control:** Maintain full ownership, upgrade authority, and customization options for your token contracts on each chain
* **Advanced Rate Limiting:** Configure inbound and outbound transfer limits per chain and across custom timeframes to prevent abuse and manage deployments
* **Global Accountant:** Ensures cross-chain accounting integrity by verifying that outflows (burns and transfers) never exceed inflows (mints)
* **Flexible Access Control:** Assign specific administrative functions (e.g., Pauser role) to designated addresses for enhanced security
* **Maximum Composability:** The open-source and extensible design facilitates broad adoption and integration with other protocols
* **Custom Attestation (Optional):** Integrate external verifiers and customize message attestation thresholds for added security

> 

Reviewer: Missing how it works section

* **Security:** Highly configurable rate limiting, pausing, access controls, and threshold attestations. 
* **Contract Ownership:** You retain full ownership and upgrade authority of your native token contracts on each chain
* **Token Contracts:** Employs native token contracts owned by your protocol's governance
* **Integration:** Offers a streamlined and highly customizable framework for sophisticated deployments
* **Examples:** Explore the NTT framework in action through:

### Token Bridge

* **Ideal Use Case:** Applications like Web3 games aiming to make their token tradable across multiple chains with a simpler integration
* **Mechanism:** Exclusively uses a lock-and-mint model; Unlike NTT, it issues a *wrapped* asset on the destination chain
* **Security:** Features preconfigured rate limiting and integrated Global Accountant
* **Contract Ownership:** The wrapped asset contract is owned and upgradeable by Wormhole Governance (via a 13/19 Guardian process)
* **Token Contracts:** Utilizes wrapped asset contracts managed by the Wormhole Token Bridge
* **Integration:** Provides a straightforward and permissionless method for multichain deployment

> **Note:** For a deeper understanding of the underlying technology, explore the core messaging primitives within the Wormhole network: [Core Messaging](docs/build/core-messaging/).

Reviewer: I don't think this is the page for a NTT vs Token Bridge comparison. We'll need to figure out where we can put this, but I don't think it should be here

## Supported Token Standards

> Wormhole NTT primarily supports **ERC-20** tokens, the standard for fungible tokens on Ethereum and other EVM-compatible chains. The `NttManager` contract leverages the `IERC20` interface and OpenZeppelin's `SafeERC20` for secure and efficient transfers. It also supports **ERC-20 Burnable** tokens. Currently, NTT does not natively support other standards like ERC-721 or ERC-1155.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wormhole NTT primarily supports ERC-20 tokens, the standard for fungible tokens on Ethereum and other EVM-compatible chains. The `NttManager` contract leverages the `IERC20` interface and OpenZeppelin's `SafeERC20` for secure and efficient transfers. It also supports **ERC-20 Burnable** tokens. Currently, NTT does not natively support other standards like ERC-721 or ERC-1155.
```

I think we need to improve this. As a first time reader of this overview page, I don't know what the NttManager is

> ## Next Steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Next Steps
```

> Now that you've explored the power and flexibility of Wormhole's Native Token Transfers (NTT), it's time to harness its potential for your project. Whether you're a developer building cross-chain applications, a founder envisioning a multichain token, or a DeFi architect designing innovative protocols, NTT offers the tools for seamless native asset movement. Take the next step by looking at these resources:

Reviewer: We can get rid of this and remove the extra fluff

> **- Asset Movement Between Bitcoin and Other Chains**

Reviewer: These should be under the use cases section

---

> title: Wormhole NTT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Overview of Wormhole NTT
```

This is for SEO purposes adding "Overview of Wormhole NTT" can help it stand out a little bit more

> title: Overview of Wormhole NTT

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Native Token Transfers Overview
```

> description: With Wormhole NTT, you can directly transfer a blockchain's native assets across various connected networks.

Reviewer: Meta descriptions need to be between 120-160 characters

> description: With Wormhole NTT, you can directly transfer a blockchain's native assets across various connected networks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: With Native Token Transfers, you can directly transfer a blockchain's native assets across various connected networks.
```

Reviewer 2: use Native Token Transfers not Wormhoel NTT

categories: NTT, Transfer
---

## Introduction

> Wormhole's Native Token Transfers (NTT) provides an open-source, adaptable framework for transferring your tokens across different blockchains. Unlike traditional wrapped assets, NTT maintains the native properties of your token on every chain. This ensures you retain complete control over crucial aspects like metadata, ownership, upgradeability, and custom features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Native Token Transfers (NTT) provides an adaptable framework for transferring your native tokens across different blockchains. Unlike traditional wrapped assets, NTT maintains your token's native properties on every chain. This ensures you retain complete control over crucial aspects like metadata, ownership, upgradeability, and custom features.
```

## Key Features

- **No wrapped assets** – tokens retain their native format on each chain
- **Canonical deployments** – one unified token identity across chain
- **Supply control** – enforced mint-and-burn model maintains global supply integrity
- **Composable** – open-source and extensible for widespread adoption and integration with other protocols
- **Customizable controls** – configure rate limits, access control, and attestation thresholds

> 

Reviewer 2: add to features:

- No liquidity pools - transfer tokens without the need for liquidity pools, avoiding fees, slippage, and MEV risk
- Integrator flexibility - retained ownership, upgrade authority, and complete customizability over token contracts
- Advanced rate limiting - inbound and outbound rate limits are configurable per chain and over arbitrary periods, preventing abuse while managing network congestion and allowing for controlled deployments to new chains
--- this one about rate limiting is important ---
- Global Accountant - ensures accounting integrity across chains by checking that the number of tokens burned and transferred out of a chain never exceeds the number of tokens minted
--- Global accountant also important ---
- Custom attestation - optionally add external verifiers and configure custom message attestation thresholds
- Access control - to prevent unauthorized calls to administrative functions, protocols can choose to assign specific functions, such as the Pauser role, to a separate address from the owner

## Deployment Models

NTT offers two operational modes for your existing tokens: 

- **[Locking Mode](todo)** - preserves the original token supply on a single, designated chain
- **[Burning Mode](todo)** - enables the deployment of truly multichain tokens with the total supply distributed across various connected chains

> 

Reviewer: The two deployment models are listed here for reference: https://wormhole.com/docs/learn/transfers/native-token-transfers/deployment/

We should take the content from that guide, make it a bit more concise and add it to this section

## Supported Token Models

> Wormhole's NTT primarily supports `ERC-20` tokens. These are the most common type of tokens that are identical and interchangeable. `ERC-20`s are found on Ethereum and other EVM-compatible chains.

Reviewer: No need to put ERC-20 in backticks since it's not code. If we were referencing something like an implementation of ERC20, specifically something like this:

```
contract MyToken is ERC20 {
....
}
```

And we specifically wanted to callout that piece of code, then we would want to put it in backticks

> The NTT system's `NttManager` contract is a special program that securely handles these tokens. It uses standard tools like the `IERC20` interface, which acts as a blueprint for ERC-20 tokens and OpenZeppelin's `SafeERC-20` library (for added security) to manage transfers. NTT also supports `ERC-20` Burnable tokens, which can be permanently removed from circulation, crucial for NTT's token burning process.

Reviewer: Ok, so this is the first mentioning of the NttManager, so if I am reading this for the first time with no prior knowledge, I'm like what is this? Why do I care about it?

Currently, NTT doesn't natively support `ERC-721`, which are unique, non-fungible tokens, or `ERC-1155`, a standard for managing multiple token types. In short, NTT is designed for seamless, secure transfers of interchangeable digital assets across compatible blockchains.

## How it Works

> Here's a breakdown of the key steps involved when a native token is transferred across blockchains using NTT:

Reviewer: I think a big component of NTT is the deployment and set up process. So maybe @ilariae or @martin0995 can chime in, but I'm not sure if these set of steps make the most sense? Maybe we should add info on the deployment process along with this?

Reviewer 2: agree this is just a transfer process, it should focus on how to deploy NTTs

1. **Initiate transfer** - a user triggers a request to move their native token from a source blockchain to a desired destination blockchain.
2. **Source chain action** - the token is either burned on the source chain (for distributed supply) or locked (for single-chain supply)
3. **Wormhole attestation** - Wormhole's Guardians observe and cryptographically attest to this token action on the source chain, generating a signed message (VAA)
4. **Message relaying** - the signed message containing the transfer details is relayed across the Wormhole network to the destination chain
5. **Destination chain action** - verified Wormhole message on the destination chain mints (if burned) or unlocks (if locked) the native token 
6. **Accounting integrity** - the Global Accountant continuously validates total supply across chains

> ### Native Token Transfer Framework

Reviewer: What is the goal of this section?

- **Mechanism** supports a pure burn-and-mint model or a hybrid hub-and-spoke approach
- **Security** highly configurable rate limiting, pausing, access controls, and threshold attestations
- **Contract ownership** retain full ownership and upgrade authority of your native token contracts on each chain
- **Token contracts** employs native token contracts owned by your protocol's governance

> - **Integration** offers a streamlined and highly customizable framework for sophisticated deployments

Reviewer 2: these are more like features

> _Note:_ For a deeper understanding of the underlying technology, explore the core messaging primitives within the Wormhole network: [Core Messaging](docs/build/core-messaging/).

Reviewer 2: to make notes use 

`!!!note
tab space- text
`

> ## Use Cases 

Reviewer: Please update to new links. If you're unsure or can't find them on the staging site, please replace the old links with TODO
